.TH ulftrace 8  "2022-10-01" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
ulftrace \- Userspace ftrace.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ulftrace
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]... [\fI\,FUNCTION\/\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
ulftrace Tracing a running process

This program is also a basic command of ULPatch.

.SH ARGUMENTS

.SS
\fB\-\-log-level\fR[=\fI\,LEVEL\/\fR], \fB\-\-lv\fR[=\fI\,LEVEL\/\fR]
Specify a log level. The LEVEL could be number(see
.BR syslog (3)
) or string(debug,dbg,info,inf,notice,note,warning,warn,error,err,crit,alert,emerg).
For example, if you want to set log level to LOG_ERR, just:
.BR --lv=error .

.SS
\fB\-\-log-debug\fR
Set log level to DEBUG.

.SS
\fB\-\-log-error\fR
Set log level to ERROR.

.SS
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-dry-run\fR
Don't actually run.

.SS
\fB\-v\fR[vvv...], \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Show verbose information.
You can set more \fBv\fR values to increase the verbose level and display more details.
For example, \fB-vvvvv\fR will set the verbose value to \fB4\fR, because there are 4 \fBv\fR's.

.SS
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help information.

.SS
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.

.SS
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force do something.

.SS
\fB\-\-info\fR
Print detailed information about features supported by the kernel and the ULPatch build. It is necessary to display this information when you are submitting a MR/PR.

.SH TODO
Maybe this feature will never be implemented, maybe it will be implemented at the end, who knows.

.SH OS
Linux

.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rong Tao

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ulpatch (8),
.BR ulpinfo (8),
.BR ultask (8),
.BR ulp-config (8)
