.\" Copyright (c) Rong Tao (rtoax@foxmail.com)
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
.\"
.TH ulpinfo 8  "2023-12-09" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
ulpinfo \- Userspace livepatch information.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ulpinfo
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
ulpinfo is used to view the patch information of the target process, including the patch ID and patch objective function. Usually used in conjunction with ulpatch. At the same time, you can view the local ulp.elf patch file.

This program is a basic command of ULPatch.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
bfd

.SH ARGUMENTS
.SS
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR [PID]
Specify a target process's PID.

.SS
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-patch\fR [ULPATCH.ELF]
Show ulpatch.elf file information.

.SH COMMON ARGUMENTS
.SS
\fB\-\-log-level\fR[=\fI\,LEVEL\/\fR], \fB\-\-lv\fR[=\fI\,LEVEL\/\fR]
Specify a log level. The LEVEL could be number(see
.BR syslog (3)
) or string(debug,dbg,info,inf,notice,note,warning,warn,error,err,crit,alert,emerg).
For example, if you want to set log level to LOG_ERR, just:
.BR --lv=error .

.SS
\fB\-\-log-debug\fR
Set log level to DEBUG.

.SS
\fB\-\-log-error\fR
Set log level to ERROR.

.SS
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-dry-run\fR
Don't actually run.

.SS
\fB\-v\fR[vvv...], \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Show verbose information.
You can set more \fBv\fR values to increase the verbose level and display more details.
For example, \fB-vvvvv\fR will set the verbose value to \fB4\fR, because there are 4 \fBv\fR's.

If \fBverbose=1\fR, ulpinfo will display ulp-information, if \fBverbose>=2\fR, ulp disasm will display.

.SS
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help information.

.SS
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.

.SS
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force do something.

.SS
\fB\-\-info\fR
Print detailed information about features supported by the kernel and the ULPatch build. It is necessary to display this information when you are submitting a MR/PR.

.SH OS
Linux

.SH STABILITY
Unstable - in development.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rong Tao

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ulftrace (8),
.BR ultask (8),
.BR ulpatch (8),
.BR ulpconfig (8)
